README.md, before:

# Vicharak-Chat: LLM Chat Interface for Axon SBCs

Vicharak-Chat is a streamlined solution designed exclusively for Axon SBCs, powered by the RK3588 chip. It enables users to run large language models (LLMs) efficiently on the device's NPU. With Vicharak-Chat, users can transform their Axon SBC into a powerful AI conversational system.

### Key Features:

- **Effortless Setup**: Packaged as a `.deb` file for easy installation and deployment.
- **Optimized Performance**: Harnesses the Axon SBC's NPU to deliver high-efficiency LLM inference.
- **Interactive Front-End**: A web-based interface accessible via `localhost:<port>` for seamless interaction with deployed LLMs.
- **Interactive Console-mode**: A terminal based interactive chat with LLMs

## Steps to setup:

- update apt package list using `sudo apt update`
- check if NPU driver version >= 0.9.8 using `sudo cat /sys/kernel/debug/rknpu/version`
  - if driver version < 0.9.8, update the kernel as follows
  - check kernel version using `uname -a`
  - if kernel version is 5.\*.\* , then run `sudo apt install linux-image-5.10.233-axon`
  - else if kernel version is 6.\*.\*, then run either `sudo upgrade` to upgrade all packages or run `sudo apt reinstall linux-image-6.1.75-axon linux-headers-6.1.75-axon` to upgrade kernel only
  - after updating kernel reboot Axon with command `sudo reboot`
  - you can optionally remove older kernel(s)
- install vicharak chat by running: `sudo apt install vicharak-chat`
- to remove and free up space run `sudo apt remove vicharak-chat`
- in future to update vicharak-chat to get latest feature, run:  
    `sudo apt update`  
    `sudo apt reinstall vicharak-chat`


## Usage of app:  

Enter command `vicharak-chat` in terminal to run with default configurations.

### Command Line Arguments To Alter Configurations

This program accepts the following command-line arguments:

- `--top_k <int>`: Sets the `top_k` parameter, which controls the number of highest-probability options considered during sampling (e.g., `--top_k 5`).

- `--top_p <float>`: Sets the `top_p` parameter, which enables nucleus sampling by considering the smallest set of tokens with a cumulative probability greater than `p` (e.g., `--top_p 0.8`).

- `--temperature <float>`: Adjusts the randomness of predictions by scaling logits before applying softmax (e.g., `--temperature 0.7`).

- `--repeat_penalty <float>`: Penalizes the model for repeating the same token excessively (e.g., `--repeat_penalty 1.1`).

- `--frequency_penalty <float>`: Penalizes tokens based on their frequency in the text so far (e.g., `--frequency_penalty 0.1`).

- `--presence_penalty <float>`: Penalizes tokens based on whether they appear in the text at all (e.g., `--presence_penalty 0.1`).

- `--max_new_tokens <int>`: Specifies the maximum number of new tokens to generate (e.g., `--max_new_tokens 256`).

- `--max_context_len <int>`: Sets the maximum context length for the model (e.g., `--max_context_len 512`).

- `--skip_special_token <bool>`: Determines whether to skip special tokens in the output. Use `true` or `false` (e.g., `--skip_special_token true`).

- `--socket_port <int>`: Sets the socket port used for communication (e.g., `--socket_port 8080`).

- `--frontend_port <int>`: Sets the frontend port for connecting the frontend interface (e.g., `--frontend_port 3060`).

- `--list_models`: List all readily available locally or on server (e.g., `--list_models`).

- `--console_run <string>`: Set to use console for interaction with mentioned model, pass model name(available models can be checked using --list_models) or full path to rkllm model  (e.g., `--console_run Llama3.2-1B`).

- `--prompt_prefix <string>`: Add prefix to user input string for model specific prompt (default: \"\", make sure you enter entire prompt inside double inverted comma).

- `--prompt_postfix <string>`: Append postfix to user input string for model specific prompt (default: \"\", make sure you enter entire prompt inside double inverted comma).
                    
- `--launch_frontend`: Sets to launch frontend automatically (e.g., `--launch_frontend`).

- `--log_inputs`: Enables logging of input data for debugging purposes.

- `--log_outputs`: Enables logging of output data for debugging purposes.

- `--boost_mode`: Sets the frequencies of system resources at max, to use this app should be run as root or with sudo.

- `--version` or `-v`: Displays the version of installed vicharak-chat.

- `--help`: Displays the help message, listing all available options and their descriptions.

To see a quick summary of these options, you can run:

```bash
vicharak-chat --help
```

### For interaction with LLMs via terminal only

To run vicharak-chat in terminal mode,:  
Enter command: `vicharak-chat --console_run <model_name_or_full_path>`   
Available models' name can be seen by entering `vicharak-chat --list_models` command  

For custom prompt prefix and postfix, that is needed to be added to the user input, there is `--prompt_prefix` and `--prompt_postfix` command line argument  
Example usage: `vicharak-chat --console_run path_to_custom_model/model.rkllm --prompt_prefix "<|im_start|>system\nYou are a helpful assistant.<|im_end|>\n<|im_start|>user\n" --prompt_postfix "<|im_end|>\n<|im_start|>assistant\n"`  

To exit the app, enter `/exit` in place of user input.

While LLM is still generating output, to interrupt and stop it, press `ctrl+c` **only once** to stop it.

To switch model, enter `/switch` in place of user input. Then it will ask for model name or complete path to rkllm model. Enter that and model will be switched.


### For interaction with LLMs via frontend

Run `vicharak-chat` in terminal to launch vicharak-chat backend and frontend server on Axon.

If you have display connected to Axon and want to launch vicharak-chat in browser of Axon automatically while running vicharak-chat, run as `vicharak-chat --launch-frontend`

By default frontend port is set as 3060, and socket port for communication between frontend and backend is set as 8080.  
These can be changed using command line arguments as: `vicharak --frontend_port 5050 --socket_port 6060`  
Above command will change frontend port to 5050 and socket_port to 6060.  

After running vicharak-chat, to connect to vicharak-chat frontend, enter url "http://<axon_ip_address_or_localhost_if_browser_on_axon>:<frontend_port>/?socket_port=6060"  
If socket_port is not modified through command line argument, you can simply enter url as "http://<axon_ip_address_or_localhost_if_browser_on_axon>:<frontend_port>"

Now after entering correct frontend url, frontend should look like:  
![frontend screenshot](assets/images/vicharak_chat_frontend_screenshot.png)

Usage of various fields are as mentioned in the image below:  
![annotated frontend screenshot](assets/images/annotated_vicharak_chat_screenshot.png)

While selecting model you can select option `custom model` to interact with your own rkllm model.  
Example usage way to use custom model:  
![custom model example](assets/images/custom_model_example.png)


For instructions regarding how to compile your LLM model to run with vicharak-chat, please checkout [Axon-NPU-Guide](https://github.com/vicharak-in/Axon-NPU-Guide?tab=readme-ov-file#how-to-convert-llm-models-from-huggingface-or-gguf-file-to-rkllm-format-and-run-on-axon)

Commit message:

docs: update usage of stable diffusion

README.md, after:

# Vicharak-Chat: LLM Chat Interface for Axon SBCs

Vicharak-Chat is a streamlined solution designed exclusively for Axon SBCs, powered by the RK3588 chip. It enables users to run large language models (LLMs) efficiently on the device's NPU. With Vicharak-Chat, users can transform their Axon SBC into a powerful AI conversational system.

### Key Features:

- **Effortless Setup**: Packaged as a `.deb` file for easy installation and deployment.
- **Optimized Performance**: Harnesses the Axon SBC's NPU to deliver high-efficiency LLM inference.
- **Interactive Front-End**: A web-based interface accessible via `localhost:<port>` for seamless interaction with deployed LLMs.
- **Interactive Console-mode**: A terminal based interactive chat with LLMs

## Steps to setup:

- update apt package list using `sudo apt update`
- check if NPU driver version >= 0.9.8 using `sudo cat /sys/kernel/debug/rknpu/version`
  - if driver version < 0.9.8, update the kernel as follows
  - check kernel version using `uname -a`
  - if kernel version is 6.\*.\*, then run either `sudo upgrade` to upgrade all packages or run `sudo apt reinstall linux-image-6.1.75-axon linux-headers-6.1.75-axon` to upgrade kernel only
  - if kernel version is 5.\*.\* , then run `sudo apt install linux-image-5.10.233-axon`
  - if kernel version is 5.\*.\*, then make sure to remove older kernel after installing newer kernel, like `sudo apt remove linux-image-5.10.160-axon`
  - after updating kernel reboot Axon with command `sudo reboot`
- install vicharak chat by running: `sudo apt install vicharak-chat`
- to remove and free up space run `sudo apt remove vicharak-chat`
- in future to update vicharak-chat to get latest feature, run:  
    `sudo apt update`  
    `sudo apt reinstall vicharak-chat`


## Usage of app:  

Enter command `vicharak-chat` in terminal to run with default configurations.

### Command Line Arguments To Alter Configurations

This program accepts the following command-line arguments:

- `--top_k <int>`: Sets the `top_k` parameter, which controls the number of highest-probability options considered during sampling (e.g., `--top_k 5`).

- `--top_p <float>`: Sets the `top_p` parameter, which enables nucleus sampling by considering the smallest set of tokens with a cumulative probability greater than `p` (e.g., `--top_p 0.8`).

- `--temperature <float>`: Adjusts the randomness of predictions by scaling logits before applying softmax (e.g., `--temperature 0.7`).

- `--repeat_penalty <float>`: Penalizes the model for repeating the same token excessively (e.g., `--repeat_penalty 1.1`).

- `--frequency_penalty <float>`: Penalizes tokens based on their frequency in the text so far (e.g., `--frequency_penalty 0.1`).

- `--presence_penalty <float>`: Penalizes tokens based on whether they appear in the text at all (e.g., `--presence_penalty 0.1`).

- `--max_new_tokens <int>`: Specifies the maximum number of new tokens to generate (e.g., `--max_new_tokens 256`).

- `--max_context_len <int>`: Sets the maximum context length for the model (e.g., `--max_context_len 512`).

- `--skip_special_token <bool>`: Determines whether to skip special tokens in the output. Use `true` or `false` (e.g., `--skip_special_token true`).

- `--socket_port <int>`: Sets the socket port used for communication (e.g., `--socket_port 8080`).

- `--frontend_port <int>`: Sets the frontend port for connecting the frontend interface (e.g., `--frontend_port 3060`).

- `--list_models`: List all readily available locally or on server (e.g., `--list_models`).

- `--console_run <string>`: Set to use console for interaction with mentioned model, pass model name(available models can be checked using --list_models) or full path to rkllm model  (e.g., `--console_run Llama3.2-1B`).

- `--prompt_prefix <string>`: Add prefix to user input string for model specific prompt (default: \"\", make sure you enter entire prompt inside double inverted comma).

- `--prompt_postfix <string>`: Append postfix to user input string for model specific prompt (default: \"\", make sure you enter entire prompt inside double inverted comma).
                    
- `--launch_frontend`: Sets to launch frontend automatically (e.g., `--launch_frontend`).

- `--log_inputs`: Enables logging of input data for debugging purposes.

- `--log_outputs`: Enables logging of output data for debugging purposes.

- `--boost_mode`: Sets the frequencies of system resources at max, to use this app should be run as root or with sudo.

- `--version` or `-v`: Displays the version of installed vicharak-chat.

- `--help`: Displays the help message, listing all available options and their descriptions.

To see a quick summary of these options, you can run:

```bash
vicharak-chat --help
```

### For interaction with LLMs via terminal only

To run vicharak-chat in terminal mode,:  
Enter command: `vicharak-chat --console_run <model_name_or_full_path>`   
Available models' name can be seen by entering `vicharak-chat --list_models` command  

For custom prompt prefix and postfix, that is needed to be added to the user input, there is `--prompt_prefix` and `--prompt_postfix` command line argument  
Example usage: `vicharak-chat --console_run path_to_custom_model/model.rkllm --prompt_prefix "<|im_start|>system\nYou are a helpful assistant.<|im_end|>\n<|im_start|>user\n" --prompt_postfix "<|im_end|>\n<|im_start|>assistant\n"`  

To exit the app, enter `/exit` in place of user input.

While LLM is still generating output, to interrupt and stop it, press `ctrl+c` **only once** to stop it.

To switch model, enter `/switch` in place of user input. Then it will ask for model name or complete path to rkllm model. Enter that and model will be switched.


### For interaction with LLMs via frontend

Run `vicharak-chat` in terminal to launch vicharak-chat backend and frontend server on Axon.

If you have display connected to Axon and want to launch vicharak-chat in browser of Axon automatically while running vicharak-chat, run as `vicharak-chat --launch-frontend`

By default frontend port is set as 3060, and socket port for communication between frontend and backend is set as 8080.  
These can be changed using command line arguments as: `vicharak --frontend_port 5050 --socket_port 6060`  
Above command will change frontend port to 5050 and socket_port to 6060.  

After running vicharak-chat, to connect to vicharak-chat frontend, enter url "http://<axon_ip_address_or_localhost_if_browser_on_axon>:<frontend_port>/?socket_port=6060"  
If socket_port is not modified through command line argument, you can simply enter url as "http://<axon_ip_address_or_localhost_if_browser_on_axon>:<frontend_port>"

Now after entering correct frontend url, frontend should look like:  
![frontend screenshot](assets/images/vicharak_chat_frontend_screenshot.png)

Usage of various fields are as mentioned in the image below:  
![annotated frontend screenshot](assets/images/annotated_vicharak_chat_screenshot.png)

While selecting model you can select option `custom model` to interact with your own rkllm model.  
Example usage way to use custom model:  
![custom model example](assets/images/custom_model_example.png)


For instructions regarding how to compile your LLM model to run with vicharak-chat, please checkout [Axon-NPU-Guide](https://github.com/vicharak-in/Axon-NPU-Guide?tab=readme-ov-file#how-to-convert-llm-models-from-huggingface-or-gguf-file-to-rkllm-format-and-run-on-axon)   

### How to use Stable Diffusion 1.5 for image generation
For running Stable Diffusion 1.5, for the first time only multiple python libraries and rknn model files will be downloaded of total around 3GB.
- First chose `Stable_Diffusion1.5` option from `model select` menu  
- After selecting `Stable_Diffusion1.5`, if it is 1st time then it will show a dialogue box on whether you want to download the model.
- After downloading the model, it will load the model
- After loading it requires text description of image and number of UNet iterations (3 to 10) to be performed for generation.  
  (More number of iterations would generate better image but at the cost of extra time)


**Example generated image:**  
Prompt: a beautiful garden with colourful flowers and lake in between  
Iterations: 10  
![Stable Diffusion example](assets/images/stable_diffusion_eg.png)
